# Remarks of editor over first manuscript

Received: 12 November 2018


1) As part of the literature research, I have noticed the recently published article Lin
M, Denker H (2018): On the computation of gravitational effects for tesseroids with
constant and linearly varying density. Journal of Geodesy. DOI:
10.1007/s00190-018-1193-4.  This article also provides a methodology to compute the
gravitational attraction of a tesseroids with variable density. Therefore, I recommend
to include their paper and clearly work out differences of their procedure to yours.

2) In the abstract and elsewhere you frequently stated that an "arbitrary" density
function can be used for the methodology. However, if I understood your algorithm
correctly, the density function needs at least be linearly approximated. Furthermore,
investigations are restricted to linear and exponential density functions, which should
be clearly indicated.

3) When introducing tesseroids in the first section, I recommend to also
include the original reference to Anderson (1976).

4) Please homogenize throughout the manuscript: "gravitational gradient" vs.
"gravitational acceleration" and "Marussi tensor" vs. "gradient tensor".

5) P3, L49: "...fields generated by the analytical solution of a spherical shell."

* Accepted suggestion with different order of words

6) P4, L25 and elsewhere "first- and second-order derivatives"

* Accepted suggestion

7) Please carefully check, if all variables are defined that are used in the equations.
For example this is not the case for lambda{1,2}, phi{1,2}, r{1,2} in Eq. (1)-(3) and
sigma and f in Eq.(11).

* Added definition of tesseroid boundaries.
* Added definition of integration kernel f.
* Don't know what sigma is. Assume is Omega.
* Replaced Omega for the explicit boundaries of the tesseroid.

8) Section 2.1: Please provide some more information how to calculate the quadrature
nodes and weights. At least a suitable reference should be added, where to find them.

* Added another reference to Hildebrand1987 and Uieda2016 for same notation.

9) P5, L49: "... and W^r_i, W^\phi_j, W^\lambda_k are the quadrature weights."

* Accepted suggestion

10) P7, L16: I am not sure what is meant by "offending dimensions".

11) P9, L37: "For further iterations".

* Accepted suggestion

12) P9, L47: Second dot at the end of line.

* Accepted suggestion

13) Section 3: Please motivate the selected parameters and values for the numerical
investigations (e.g, tesseroid discretization, computation grid sizes/regions/heights
and coefficients for the linear and exponential density function). For which
applications are they representative and to which extend are the results and findings
obtained with these parameters transferable to other cases?

14) Eq. (25): b instead of c?

* Accepted suggestion

15) Figure 3: I would expect a short discussion/interpretation on the differences
visible for the four scenarios (Pole, Equator, Satellite, Big Grid).

16) P14, L43: "... equal to the linear density case"

* Accepted suggestion

17) Please provide some information about the needed computational load. For example in
the case of Figure 4, it would be very interesting to get an impression on the relative
computation times between the investigated cases in the D-delta space. Perhaps you can
also indicate the different number of (sub-divided) tesseroids that need to be solved
for these cases.

18) Section 4: From my perspective, this section should be extended. A least a short
discussion and interpretation of the results for the Neuquén Basin shown in Figure
6 needs to be included. To see the impact of using an exponential density function, it
would be nice to compare these results with those obtained by using a homogeneous
density distribution.

19) P17, L44: Please add a reference to the statement "These values are in agreement
with previous results ...".

20) P20, L30: "z-axis"

21) Eq. (A.9): Missing dot at the end of line.

22) P21, L33: "... expressions for the gravitational potential with different"

23) To help the reader, it is useful to additionally provide a chapter or page number
for references based on text books like Hildebrand (1987).
